it's awesome to be here thank you so
much for having us
hello hello
uh
it is awesome to be back and with this
group in particular because it was
february 2020 when we were working hard
on our state of the cloud at that point
and were shut down
we ended up doing that virtually
but a huge shout out to the saster
community for pulling this together and
we were just with with jason and the
team in the speaker's lounge before this
and what i would love is if we could
give a round of applause so loud that
they can hear it as a thank you for
pulling this off
uh it was
it is totally fitting that our first
event back in person is this community
with all of you uh unveiling an updated
2021 state of the cloud for this group
as byron said we are thrilled to be here
live in person with you all on the
sasser stage
for many of you in the crowd myself
included this is my first hashtag we
outside moment in the tech community in
almost 18 months
but when we take a step back when we
think about all the change that's
happened in the market we are just awe
inspired by all the innovation
the growth and the resilience that we've
seen in the face of uncertain times
the unicorn birth rate has accelerated
beyond our wildest dreams so as we were
putting together today's presentation we
asked ourselves how exactly do you build
a unicorn
in today's state of the cloud 2021
update we have those answers
alrighty so uh we'll dive in and in
traditional fashion we're gonna try to
hit it on at least three key areas uh
the first is to talk a little bit about
the state of the industry what's
happening in cloud now and where we're
at
the second is we're going to do a deep
dive and as mary previewed uh for those
of you out there in the middle of
building your unicorn or about to launch
on this endeavor we're going to try to
give you a little bit of a how-to guide
from our lessons learned over the last
two and a half decades in this industry
and then the third is some predictions
where we think we're going ahead and
we're going to talk about the mega
trends within cloud that we think will
propel us for this next great horizon in
front of us
so to start we'll paint the picture for
where we were
at this 2020 state of the cloud in
february as the world was going through
this volatility
we were just passing a major milestone
which was the one trillion dollar mark
and if you looked at the pure play
public cloud companies that comprised
this index and this is the bvp nasdaq
emerging cloud index
we had just crossed one trillion dollars
of combined total market cap
and at the time we made a prediction
we said that we see a clear line of
sight to a doubling of that to a two
trillion dollar mark within the coming
years
now we consider ourselves fairly bullish
on cloud we've been the largest early
investor in the entire segment
the vast majority of what we as a firm
do is cloud investing
and yet even we massively underestimated
how fast this next milestone would be
passed
in fact in just over a year the industry
blew past the 2 trillion mark
and saw this massive acceleration as
many people said this pull forward of
cloud adoption driven certainly by covid
um and the the distributed work
imperative
as well as the realization of this
re-platforming software and how that
trend was happening at a rapid rate
and so if we now play forward to where
we are today
we're about to pass another trillion
dollar milestone we are within a
rounding error and mind you yesterday
didn't help so we've lost a little bit
of ground in a few percentage points but
we're within a rounding error of a three
trillion dollar milestone
which is the market cap of just the
public cloud companies comprising this
mega trend
and we'll dive in in a second to the
private companies and that's where we'll
spend most of our time
but but let's look at this over the
index and really what's happened over
the last eight years
12x is the return profile if you bought
just the average public cloud company
and as i mentioned we worked with nasdaq
to actually form a formal tracker on
this in a basket that's under the ticker
emcld
and then wisdomtree actually licensed
that into an etf and it has continued to
perform at a staggering rate
over the last year it was actually the
top performing etf on all of nasdaq
which is a statement to the power of
this community and what is happening in
cloud in sas and in this
broad-based tech phenomenon
and then if you look just at the top
basket and mind you these include some
companies that have blended business
models but what we tried to show is
what's happening in cloud relative to
some of the other mega tech trends and
you hear a lot about this fang basket
and really the the drivers of mobile and
the internet which were the catalysts of
a lot of tech adoption over the last
several decades
but our thesis internally is that those
horizons and the growth rates of those
markets are starting to pull back
and that you see a changing of the guard
and it's really the cloud basket and we
pulled out six names in particular with
microsoft twilio shopify
adobe uh
amazon
and shop and salesforce as the six new
guard flag carriers and if you look at
the relative performance you see that
separation of how they've pulled ahead
and then as you as you look uh even over
the last year and a half what you see
is this further separation and we
benchmark this relative to also our own
index you see the fang index and really
what you see is this next mountain of
sas businesses being created that we
believe will be the story of the next
decade
you're all living it this is your
day-to-day you've been part of this for
years um to you this seems standard and
obvious
it is just becoming that for the rest of
the world
corporate america still has a minority
of their software spend going into cloud
globally this is still a new phenomenon
western europe is just in catch-up mode
china is in the early days what we see
in latam what we see in india what we
see in japan
this trend is rolling through
and that's the excitement and why we're
all here today and part of this
ecosystem is because this explosive
force is straight starting to become
more and more obvious to the mainstream
economy
now i told you that we were going to
talk about the private side and dive
into that
and so probably no better start than in
unicorn land
and each year we work with forbes
magazine and we put together the cloud
100 which you can think of as the
companion offering so the cloud index is
the basket of the public stocks the
cloud 100 is the basket of the top 100
private cloud companies that group for
the first time in history
was comprised of only unicorns this year
not only that but we had to leave 50
companies off the list that were also
unicorns but couldn't make the cut from
our judges and so in just a one year
time period there was a 74 increase in
cloud unicorns
and almost
a new unicorn in the industry is being
created per day right now and in the
cloud industry it was at a rate of more
than one per week
and so
ladies and gentlemen this is the current
class of the industry at large there are
over 800 across all sectors geographies
and industries
in the cloud 100 as i told you there are
150 in the cloud 100 alone that group
comprised on their own not included in
that public market cap graph
almost another or over another half
trillion in market cap
and these are the names that are leading
that cause
these are companies in their own right
that include decacorns some of these are
cash flow positive these are the ipos
that the public investors are tracking
most closely
and this is a sign of what's possible
and what inspires all of us
to be in this industry and to be part of
this transformation
and if you step back and think about
what will 2021 be
in in the arc of this tech curve in this
adoption cycle
the numbers are staggering
in fact we are about to set records
on just about every metric that the
financial folks track
if you look at ipos which may be a
starting point as it's this bridge from
the public from the private to the
public
we're about to break records there
already we are we have exceeded prior
numbers and if you roll forward to
projections for the end of this year we
may cross 2 000 in terms of total tech
and venture-backed ipos
including toast which i'm proud to say
is a bessemer portfolio company uh that
that was the largest vertical sas ipo in
history last week and one of the largest
software ipos in history um as well as
procore another bessemer company a
number of others that are steadily
setting records and setting new
milestones for the industry
now if you look forward to to venture
dollars and probably why a lot of you
are here uh that you've either raised
early rounds and are in hyperscale mode
or considering jumping out of your cushy
employment to start a business so we
want to talk to all of you or that maybe
you're about to raise your first rounds
this is the stat that you probably see
all the time
there is a flood of venture dollars
coming into
tech at large but in software and cloud
specifically the numbers have never been
larger we will break all records this
year in terms of dollars in
then if you look at it in terms of
globalization that trend is continuing
massive jump year over year
and then if you look at dollar outflows
which are leading indicator to recycled
capital record number of exits again
record number of ipos record amount of
of m a dollars and the stat that's not
on here
is that there is a record amount of dry
powder still waiting to be deployed with
all of you
literally there's never been more money
that have been raised in venture funds
and closed but yet
not yet allocated or spent
and so while we're breaking deployment
records there's still these piles of
money waiting to find the next great
companies
to continue these trends
and this is why there's so much
excitement for the entrepreneurs and for
the investors
the outcomes have never been larger and
the path to scale has never been faster
one of my first venture investments
years ago was cornerstone on demand
which went public at you know half a
billion dollars and and 60 million of
run rate arr
you know that's a series b these days
for a lot of companies and as you look
at the time scale here
and these are all bessemer companies
that we we drew from some of their
private data in that evolution to um to
near public you see that the time scale
is accelerated hashicorp is still a
private company one of the cloud 10 on
that cloud 100 list they've blown
through the 100 million arr mark again
setting a new curve and then as was
announced last week canva is now may
become the fastest growing cloud company
to hit the billion dollar milestone
and these are the milestones that are
now possible by private companies it's
not the unicorn mark for valuation but
it's the unicorn mark for arr
there are private cloud companies that
now have line of sight or in canvas case
and a few others will be crossing the
billion dollar arr mark while still
private
and i'll tell you i was a founder
uh at the start of this cloud wave
within six months when salesforce was
founded and two-thirds of my venture
capital meetings would end essentially
on the first slide where i would talk
about cloud and at the time it was asp
and then became sas but essentially why
we're so excited about our business
model and venture firms fundamentally
said like i don't get it why would you
do why would you select this business
model where they pay you over you know
monthly rates and you have all the costs
front loaded like that's the stupidest
thing both ways and one of the meetings
at the end one of the partners said you
know i will bet you that salesforce will
never cross a billion dollars in in
revenue and will never make a penny of
of profit
um i should have taken that bet i made
the bet with my life and starting the
company instead but
i just love the fact that fundamentally
you have all fought that conventional
wisdom
you have all proven that not only is it
possible but increasingly um in many
cases it's probable when you get the
flywheel spinning that the inevitability
of cloud adoption is upon us and that's
why we're going to have some fun today
talking about how do you build your
unicorn first on valuation typically but
hopefully also in terms of arr i'm going
to turn over to my partner elliott to
talk you through some of the 10 laws
lessons that we've pulled from the
companies we've had the privilege of
working with on their journeys to this
point
thank you byron
so as byron mentioned
here at the firm we kind of do this
cloud thing a lot we've been doing it
for a long time
over the last 20 years we've had the
privilege to work alongside some of the
greatest cloud founders to ever do it
and they've worked with us to synthesize
our best practices for how you can turn
your clouds unicorn and to the next
great cloud unicorn
i have to be honest i just want to give
a shout out to whoever brought the
lifesize unicorn with them sitting next
to them about six rows back i absolutely
love that energy
so what we're gonna do today is talk to
you about what we call the bessemer
venture partners 10 laws of cloud
now while we don't have time to walk you
through each and every law we're going
to identify the three and walk you
through those that if you get these
right
you'll be well on your way to scaling
the next great cloud giant
let's see
okay law number one and the cloud
economy scale wins i think most of you
recognize this face it's toby lucky at
shopify and he thinks about scale and
defines it the same way that we do
there's really two vectors there
typically in a category leader in the
cloud you're going to amass somewhere
around 66 percent or two-thirds of the
market share but scale is also defined
by executing a product strategy that
allows you to set the pace of innovation
not just for yourself and your company
but for your customers for your market
and ultimately your competition
you know we've seen this play out in a
number of different categories in the
video conferencing space i think many of
us have probably heard eric talk about
his days at webex when he was leading
engineering and he woke up one day and
he said i don't have a lot of happy
customers anymore he realized he was no
longer setting the pace of innovation or
maybe his company was no longer we saw
the same dynamic play out with skype and
shout out to the entire zoom team
because they've obviously built an
incredible product that we all use and
throughout the pandemic they've helped
this community stay connected as well as
our colleagues and our loved ones
and they've now achieved more than 64
percent of market share and it continues
to grow
as you scale and you think about setting
the pace of innovation in your product
we talk about something you know
successfully finding your second act
these are some of my favorite examples i
happened to bump into edith harbaugh a
rock star cloud founder of launch darkly
and we were talking about their scaled
story because we were there pretty early
and they found their roots in feature
flag management and then found their
second act an experimentation twilio for
example voice video and chat we all kind
of know that cloud giant story you know
another way to sometimes find your
second act is through acquisition now
they had already played in the email
space but they went much further through
their acquisition of sendgrid
and then cloud infrastructure soon to be
a giant hashicorp they focused on
security to start with their vault
product and then they moved into
provisioning and networking
and what i want to do for the next
couple of minutes is talk about one
second act that we've seen pervade a
bunch of vertical sas companies that
have just killed it and that's the power
of payments
so if we go back to the shopify case you
know in 2012 i believe it was they
launched shopify payments this was all
about really at its roots the product
experience how do you make your
customers customer have a great
e-commerce experience it was around
reliability uh how fast were the
transactions and security but as you can
see on the chart as the company scaled
the percentage of payment volume and
payment revenue helped the company amass
humongous scale and maintain a top-line
growth rate
we've seen the same thing play out with
a great cloud
soon to be public company hopefully uh
and service titan they are the leader in
field service and contract work they
launched their payment solution product
a couple years back which allows when a
contractor comes to your home or your
business and they finish their work they
can you know accept your payments over
credit card mobile phone online and even
over traditional phone as you see also
on the chart while they're earlier in
their phase of growth on the second act
and payments it's definitely going to
play a big role in their future growth
and then lastly the granddaddy of them
all toasts now byron talked about their
record-setting ipo it's a little unfair
to talk about payments as a second act
with toast because it was always
integral to their product strategy
however if you look at their recent kind
of ipo in their recent years the
payments has totally exploded
but they've also written the book on
product innovation when it comes to the
second act they found their second act
their third act their fourth act they
could basically write like a hamilton
script to cloud product innovation
you know if you think about it we've all
probably engaged with toast whether it's
at a point of sale terminal or when you
know maybe a server or waiter asks you
to pay your bill at your table
and that was them thinking about you
know the front of the house and then
they said well how can we innovate and
find a second out in the back of the
house they did kitchen display
management so people in the back of the
house could understand how they were
interacting with the front of the house
then they innovated and found another
second act they started thinking about
the top of the house for the restaurant
owner how can i do you know
multi-restaurant management solutions
how can i do things like payroll
labor supply chain and then they even
have something called toast capital
which is a loan product which allows
restaurant owners to renovate their
space bring in new equipment and
increase the experience for just not
only their workers but their their
customers as well
i just want to give another special
shout out to toast chris and the team
have totally crushed it and they're just
scratching the service even though they
have 40 000 customers to date
the next law
investing in the sales and marketing
learning curve
so our friend tui at procore he's done
this extraordinarily well and just like
toby he thinks about it similarly to us
it's all about iterating it's about
failing fast it's about testing things
on sales and marketing the market always
changes the strategy that you have on
day one is going to be even more less
valuable by day two and beyond
so as you go across the curve we're
going to start in you know for the
founders in the room what we call the
initiation phase this is founder-led
sales
now as founders you have super powers
and go to market that i guarantee you
none of your other employees have now
why is that
it's because you're basically the head
of everything in the early days you're
the vp of marketing the vp of product
the vp of finance hr and you're
certainly probably the head of sales and
as you mature through this phase you
want to test right you want to bring in
your first batch of sales reps let's
call it two or three but you do not want
to even think about moving to the next
phase until those reps based on their
booking and sales yield are covering
covering the fully board cost of the
sales org then you're ready to move you
can finally take one of your many hats
off as head of sales and hand it over to
sales led sales what we call the
transition phase you've got some reps
that are working but you've got to scale
a professional org this is all about
building the sales playbook a repeatable
motion building out some segmentation
maybe even some geographies and some
territories
and then the rule of thumb is you want
to see kind of two to forex coverage on
the fully board cost that's evidenced in
your bookings and sales yield and when
you do that and you're starting to think
about customer success and account
management then you can move into what
we call the execution phase
this is really about finding coin
operated reps who can move into your
repeatable sales org and scale it as
fast as possible you know as tui was
talking about you know he started to see
things after the testing phase that he
knew he could scale but the mantra that
we tell our best cloud founders is you
gotta nail it
before you scale it
thinking about tui a little bit you know
he's an interesting founder you know
probably like many of you in the crowd
he lived the experience he was in
construction management
and the solutions that were there today
he hated the experience so he went out
and custom built a solution to solve the
very problems that he had experienced
himself
he was the de facto head of sales in the
early days and he tested and brought
people in to help him scale the org
and after that was successful he moved
into sales-led sales and brought in
dennis to scale the org again it's about
process hygiene it's about a repeatable
playbook it's about finding these reps
that can help your org scale and as they
start to build the channel uh build
inside sales kind of separate farmers
from net loot logo sales executives they
moved into the execution phase
now one thing we're going to talk about
in a couple slides from here that we see
with the best companies as you succeed
your customers succeed and with procore
they were able to turn some of the small
builders and construction managers and
as the product evolved and the sales and
marketing org got better they expanded
to be even bigger companies and
ultimately champions for procores
business where they were selling the
product on behalf of the company
there's three other kind of strategies
that we've seen in the pandemic or i
don't know for post pandemic midpan dig
i'm not sure where we are but these are
three strategies that we all know about
that we saw really take hold first up
product like growth
this is all about how do you retool and
rethink the product experience and
ultimately the user experience that
brings time to value forward but also
presents new opportunities and easy
opportunities for people to buy while
your sales team isn't there
usage based pricing
you know there was this world where you
know maybe two three years ago you could
take your customers and your prospects
to that juicy stick dinner to get them
over the line that's really hard to do
so what that means is if you use user
space use this i'm sorry usage based
pricing you lower the barrier of entry
for new customers and can also attract
your existing customers to use the
platform even more because pricing is
transparent
in this model ndr opportunities are big
expansion opportunities are really
really big and we're seeing this trend
more and more
and lastly we'll talk a little bit about
cloud marketplaces these are the
marketplaces that are you know kind of
used in conjunction with the big guys
azure gcp aws got to give a special
shout out to tackle i o they're the best
startup that we've come across that will
help you as an early stage cloud founder
get your product prominently placed
marketed and priced in these cloud
marketplaces
they ran a survey recently and they
found that 74 of b2b sas software buyers
have either already bought in a cloud
marketplace or planned to do so in the
next 12 months and that represents
billions of dollars of transaction and a
marketplace where your buyers already
are
and the last trend that we saw happen in
this new normal is that the traditional
sales funnel
that's gone
it's no longer static it's no longer
straight line
companies and customers and users come
in the funnel at different various
points in the traditional funnel
so we've started to advise companies to
do is think about how do you build a
flywheel that creates champions it's
about how do you captivate them how do
you catalyze their usage and engagement
how do you cultivate them and ultimately
create more champions that again like in
procore's case end up selling the
business on your behalf
one of the best examples that we saw is
a company that mary and i are lucky
enough to be partnered with and that's
hyper science an enterprise automation
company out of new york city
when the pandemic happened
they just snapped into the new normal
better than just about anyone and
started to figure out how do we get this
flywheel going
it started with content marketing and
their approach and telling their story
they moved really quickly to putting
their customer out there because again
that juicy steak dinner or dropping by
the office that was no longer an option
they launched this thing called hashtag
things
our customers say and they launched a
pandemic survey to figure out how does
usage change how is engagement change
and how can we market to you better in
order to catalyze they slash time to
market and these big kind of machine
learning enterprise tools a lot of it
has to do with customer readiness and
they said how can we give more
bite-sized
pieces of the platform and get time to
value they're quicker because again we
can't be on site doing implementation
the same way
then they rethought the way that they go
into um kind of their culture bringing
the customer into the product innovation
experience in terms of cultivating they
overnight developed a remote first
playbook for their customers that really
focused on scalability
ease of use and self-service and then at
the same time they put in new automated
flags for themselves that when a company
was about to get or a customer was about
to get to a point where they went into a
new usage tier or upgraded the service
they had a dedicated swap team to make
sure that that experience was stellar
and then lastly they really invigorated
how to create champions they invested
heavily in their customer advisory board
more than doubling it but what we found
most exciting was the team said well we
should really because we can't go on
site in the same way and speak to
executives
we should give people proprietary custom
reports analytics and dashboards so our
existing champions and our emerging
champions can talk about optimal usage
best use cases and ultimately articulate
roi inside of their org which helped
expansion and net new logos in their
respective industry
the results were astounding while a lot
of companies particularly in kind of
this enterprise automation space we're
trying to figure out what do we do how
do we do this the product that value
prop is still there but selling it and
implementing it is much harder
you know peter brodsky and the team they
saw 250 percent year-over-year error our
growth
10x increase in platform usage again
this self-sufficiency how do we drive
higher user engagement 140 overall
account growth and 170 percent net
dollar retention from an error basis
you know kudos to this team they snapped
in they got the flywheel going and the
results kind of speak for themselves so
what we've talked about so far in this
section is you know best in practice go
to market strategies that can help you
increase user metrics and user
engagement and my partner mary who is a
sas metrics guru he's going to tie it
all together so you can scale your your
startup as efficiently as humanly
possible thank you
now the go-to-market and scaling
insights that elliot shared in cloud
laws one in three will inform cloud law
number five the five c's of cloud
after tracking and and growing with many
cloud companies over time and even
founding some we at bessemer identified
five key metrics that we suggest that
you use to track and to scale your cloud
company and we call these the five cs of
cloud
they include c-a-r-r or committed annual
recurring revenue
cac payback customer acquisition cost
payback
customer lifetime value
churn and cash flow
but in recent years as we've continued
to evaluate the growth of cloud
companies we realize that there's
another metric another c that we can add
to the equation and we introduce here
the cash conversion score
it is c-a-r-r or committed annual
recurring revenue divided by total
capital to raise to date minus cash
and as such it it calculates the return
on invested capital of one dollar ever
invested into a cloud company
if a company has a cash conversion score
of 1x one dollar of investment yields
one dollar of top line recurring revenue
given how closely it measures return on
invested capital it's therefore no
surprise that it's a powerful proxy for
returns
across the bessemer portfolio
companies that had a cash conversion
score of 1x at the time of financing
actually yielded an internal rate of
return of 120 percent
we developed one of our famous good
better best metrics uh good better best
frameworks that you can use as you scale
your cloud company while leveraging the
cash conversion score
0.25 to 0.5 x is good
point five to one x is better and one x
or more is great
we therefore would like to reintroduce
cloud law number five as the sixties of
cloud and we encourage you to go to
bvp.com cloud to review and learn more
about these metrics
and now that we've explored a little bit
about the six cs of cloud that we you
should use to track your cloud business
we'd love to share some insights about
the environment in which you would be
building your cloud business in today's
age of unicorns
or should we say decacorns if we look at
the top 10 cloud 100 companies from 2021
they're actually the average to be a
decacorn with an average of a 20 billion
dollar valuation and an aggregate equity
value of 200 billion
2x increase year over year which shows
the power of the cloud today toast and
freshworks as you'll see here have
already gone public
looking at the entire cloud 100 list as
a whole as byron mentioned it's at 518
billion dollars up 94 year-over-year
from 2020 when it was worth 267 billion
dollars
this increase in valuation we credit to
tailwinds for cloud adoption investor
understanding and appreciation of the
cloud business model and two things that
we're going to explore more here revenue
growth rates expanding and multiples
expanding as well
using the cloud 100 as a heuristic you
see that cloud multiples are expanding
dramatically over time
the average cloud 100 company so the top
cloud companies in the world at any one
moment had a 9x arr multiple in 2016
increasing 270 percent until 2021 where
it earned a 34x multiple absolutely
incredible
and it's not just that multiples are
expanding growth rates are increasing as
well again out of the best cloud
companies in the world it was they were
growing an average of 60 percent in 2017
increasing to 90 percent in 2021 and
what you'll see is that the top quartile
cloud companies actually accelerated in
growth rates to 110
we found at bessemer that kovid really
opened up some tam expansion
opportunities that cloud companies were
able to take advantage of in particular
beneficiaries were in collaboration
productivity and data infrastructure
software segments
tying these together though we note that
investors are actually willing to pay
more today than they ever have for the
same growth rate
it's the best time in history to build a
cloud company between increasing growth
rates expanding multiples and investor
sentiment we're seeing today the rise of
unicorns and in the next couple of
slides we'd like to discuss a few of the
other key trends that we're seeing in
the private cloud market today
first of all the growth of cloud is not
unique to silicon valley it really is
global
at bessemer we're lucky to be invested
in mambu in germany kanban australia
contract book in denmark and what we've
seen is that that that trend is only
going to continue especially with the
growth of technical talent
internationally
and beyond just expanding in geography
we're finding that cloud has expanded
dramatically in sub-sector as well
between bi and analytics hr security
vertical software we're seeing cloud
impact absolutely every single industry
segment and sub sector
two for which cloud has had had an
outsized impact of late our data
infrastructure in fintech with companies
like hoshi corp and stripe what we've
seen in the last 12 months is that these
two segments have grown dramatically
thanks to covet tailwinds and the
broader trends towards cloud adoption
and these two segments actually
represented the highest total valuation
of sub sectors on this year's cloud 100
list
and now that we've discussed the state
of the private cloud market today
and the trends of the unicorns being
built today i'd like to invite elliott
back up to share what we will be seeing
from the unicorns of tomorrow
thank you mary
okay so let's have some fun
right it's predictions who knows if all
of these are right but we do our
absolute best one of the best annual
traditions we have at bessemer is we put
the partnership together our investment
team marketing team everyone gets
together we sit down and we try to
figure out where going to be the biggest
trends and opportunities for the early
stage cloud founders and unicorns of
tomorrow
we're gonna walk you through all seven
of them i'm gonna take the first three
and then i'll pass it off to my my
colleagues here
prediction number one
the continued unbundling of the virtual
office
so when covid hit what happened we all
had to go work from home
uh while many of us spend hours and
hours maybe even more hours in the
pandemic working out of some of the
traditional and legacy
office suites like the microsoft office
suite or maybe even the g suite what we
saw is the emergence and the super
powering in the remote work environment
of some purpose-built dedicated
solutions that have really achieved
scale and the kind of meeting and
calendaring this place everyone's kind
of heard a little bit about calendly and
their story one of the best bootstrapped
and now vc backstories to ever happen in
sas undock another really interesting
yet earlier stage company in that space
i'll shout out two more you know
everyone went remote
all of you are probably hiring more
remote work from anywhere
mural and mirror are two of the best
collaborative tools out there to make
sure that you keep the trains running
and people are working just as
effectively as they were when everyone
was together in the office and then
lastly i have to give a hat tip to hop
in
you know two years ago when we were
trying to figure out what do we do with
faster what do we do with our cloud 100
we're able to use tools like hopn to do
virtual events and now hybrid events and
i think the hybrid new normal is what
we're going to see from events in the
future
prediction number two we're bringing smb
back with sas of course we've talked a
lot about toast because the restaurant
industry was just ravaged in the
pandemic but also in the vertical sas
play we've seen a ton of new emerging
players i have to give a shout out to
dave and song two of my good friends
over at squire who have revolutionized
how people think about kind of the
barbershop and salon industry some other
great examples there are service monkey
and the car in automotive repair space
one of my favorite emerging companies
since they are in the coin operated
laundry space
where you know it's a legacy business
and we're digitizing it and taking it to
the cloud
we've talked a lot about remote work you
know you're probably again hiring people
all over the place papaya global a great
company in the hr space for
international payroll and all the tax
things you need to think about and then
lastly i'll give a shout out to my
second home toronto canada
ada support will help you manage the
problems that your customers have on
your behalf in a remote fashion
and then lastly
diversity equity inclusion tools they
kind of take their rightful place i'm
going to take a little bit of time this
one's personal for me
i've been a venture capitalist for 16
years
it shouldn't shock anyone in this room
that i don't look like your average
venture capitalist still today
so a lot of these tools there's this new
discussion about what can we do as a
community as companies and as leaders to
help dni efforts inside of places like
bessemer and the cloud companies that
you manage as well so i'm going to shout
out a couple of these i'm going to start
with syndio
maria incredible cloud founder and her
team they're focused on pay equity
they've got the best platform out there
in an analytics suite to make sure that
people are getting equal pay for equal
work
and the training space there is a
dynamic founder over at unpacking just
google it and if the moment you see her
you'll say i need to learn more about
this business and i'll also shout out
diversio another toronto-based business
that even bessemer has partnered with to
help us understand where our dni
challenges are but also chart a path for
solutions so we can make sure that
everyone inside of our company and they
work with our portfolio companies are
having equitable experiences
awesome i'd love to now talk about
prediction number four which is that
data and machine learning infrastructure
accelerates to new heights
as more data is being created and is
available than ever before we're seeing
trends emerge in the enterprise data
stack as well
from moving data to storing it querying
it visualizing it monitoring it the
opportunities here are endless we've
partnered with implied data in real-time
analytics in firebolt and data
warehousing but the opportunities here
are vast
prediction number five the rise of the
citizen developer and creator
we are fully in the age of the
democratization of software development
and we're seeing tools like zapier and
webflow completely democratize the
ability to do technical software
development in enabling non-technical
users with technical skill sets but
we're seeing a very similar trend emerge
with with the use of creator economy
tools
users can develop manage and distribute
unique content without dedicated
technical design resources and tools
like this include the likes of canva
which is a bessemer portfolio company
i'd love to invite byron to share the
rest of our predictions and to close us
out
thank you mary
so number six double clicks on the
fintech trend that we saw in the late
stage private space of the cloud 100 the
fastest growing segment within our cloud
100 list this year was fintech and we're
seeing that roll through um to the
the wider end of the funnel for company
creation as well um and certainly that
is around the unbundling and the the neo
bank mindset with the b2b overlay to
that as well and the enabling tech
we're also seeing increasingly our
vertical sas and our smb sas solutions
are embedding fintech products into them
as elliott talked a lot about in the
second act how it's become a powerful
driver for companies like toast and
service titan
for their second acts as you get the
payments flow as part of the business
interaction and for those of you
building apps out there we encourage you
to think about this much earlier in your
company's life cycle because there are
so many enabling technologies now
available certainly when you get into
the security identity fraud
and then obviously crypto in and of
itself uh its own category but
increasingly has a place in the b2b
world as well
and that brings us to number seven which
is really a deep dive on one of the
themes that you saw in the smb world as
well which is the verticalization of
software
again one of the largest ipos in
software history last week was vertical
sas for restaurants with toast
in the bessemer portfolio alone earlier
this year pro corn construction acv
auctions and automotive cs disco and
legal we're just seeing this rip through
the market as increasingly the in the
convergence of cloud and mobile are the
unlock for these businesses to
re-platform the the technology wave is
behind us and supporting us and for
those of you out there with domain
experience and or interest the time is
now the tools are there and the
opportunity is bright we see this in
auto with our portfolio company shop
monkey elliot mentioned squire in the
barbershop world guild in edtech
and these are just a handful of the
names that are all you know
at massive scale already and rolling
through this next wave of innovation
and so for those of you who want to sit
to think about yourself in these shoes
and really to tackle this topic of how
to build
a unicorn we want to uh highlight some
of the key themes and then point you to
some of the resources that we have
online and so from the takeaway side
first
the scale of the opportunities are
staggering and that unlocks all sorts of
things it unlocks hiring for you when
you're recruiting talent away from these
cushy corporate jobs that unlocks
funding for you it unlocks partnerships
and opportunities in a massive scalable
way
the 10 laws are a resource that we have
online there's much deeper materials
there you can look at references and
guides and templates and things but we
called out three specifically for you
today which is the the scale economy and
how scale wins um and the second act how
that can become an increasing part of
your strategy
the go to market strategies behind those
and talked about three go to market
models uh including the scale it before
you nail it uh overlay that applies
frankly to all three of them
and then we talked about the five now
the sixties of cloud finance that we
really think of as the dashboards for
you as founders and executives and for
us as investors those are the dashboards
that we talk about in board meetings
those are probably the things you should
be talking about in your e-staff and
team meetings and they're the leading
indicators of business health
and the years ahead
and then in terms of the resources that
are available for you
i would steer you frankly to our website
where we have links not just our own
materials but a lot of awesome industry
resources out there um that the cloud
community and the investment bank and
the analyst world and even other venture
firms have created that we think can be
helpful for for all of you um and then
three specific uh thought pieces that
we've referenced uh mary put out a
really thoughtful metrics and template
uh uh set of materials on the scale to
100 million that i'd encourage you you
download and look at today's
presentation of building a cloud unicorn
is now live on the website and so you
can go back through these materials
and then when you're looking for comps
and data sets and things we've
referenced this cloud index and
the public cloud companies we went
through a full update on our website
where we've got a lot of drill downs and
analytics that you can look at you can
figure out your comp set you can pull
down your metrics you can look at
their their target numbers and their
forward projections and how analysts are
valuing them and that's available also
in the cloud section of our site
under the cloud index and so on behalf
of the group uh you can follow us also
individually
twitter hashtags and all that
but more than anything thank you and uh
even in this new normal we're living in
an age of unicorns thank you for your
time interest
[Music]
you